senior EU officials have joined a
growing chorus of condemnation after an
Israeli air strike on a School Compound
killed dozens in Gaza City the eu's top
Diplomat Joseph Burell expressed his
horror at the attack which gazan
officials say killed more than 90 people
Sheltering in the school Egypt and Qatar
are demanding an urgent investigation
and the US has said it's quote deeply
concerned about the strike Israel has
repeatedly claimed that Hamas uses
schools as cover in the wake of the
October 7th Terror
attacks tabin School reduced to ruins
after an Israel air strike in
Gaza according to an official from
gaza's Hamas run government around 6,000
displaced people were seeking shelter in
the compound at the time Witnesses say
the school came under attack while
people were offering Dawn
prayers Israel as usual didn't give a
warning it strikes regardless of whether
they're children women young or older
adults these were peaceful people in the
mosque people were praying washing some
were sleeping upstairs including
children women and older
people the Missile hit them without any
warning first one missile then another
one we recovered them as body parts
the Israeli military has confirmed the
strike saying it hit a Hamas command and
control center embedded within the
site it says numerous steps were taken
to mitigate the risk of harming
civilians many of the casualties were
rushed to Gaza City's Al Ali
hospital they dropped a missile on them
while they were just
[Music]
praying fear God people fear God Arabs
fear
God the strike comes at a time when
mediators Egypt Qatar and Saudi Arabia
are pushing to resume ceasefire talks
but Egypt's foreign Ministry says that
quote the deliberate killing of Gaza
civilians shows Israel has no intention
of ending the
war let's hear now from Laura
blumenfield a Middle East analyst
best-selling author and former senior
policy advisor at the US state
department where she focused on the
Middle East peace process welcome to DW
news now how does the US reconcile its
stated deep concern for the welfare of
Gaza and civilians with its ongoing
military support for
Israel uh a deep concern indeed I mean
this is one of these examples where the
law of unintended consequences in war uh
created some just disastrous
consequences um you know as as the White
House said today although we understand
and recognize that Israel needs to
Target terrorists um that they're deeply
concerned um and that Israel needs to
take more precautions to protect
civilians from the American point of
view what they're using this for
hopefully is to kind of give some more
momentum for the uh ceasefire hostage
deal that it kind of underscores the
urgency it's kind of a Now or Never time
which is we're hoping to have a kind of
diplomatic train of representatives from
the United States uh with this August
15th date set for this week uh to
finally bring the table the parties to
the table and reach
agreement but when it comes to putting
pressure on Israel has the US lost its
opportunity now to to to push Israel to
changing
course in a very sad and tragic way
today's event gives the United States
additional leverage and pressure because
while the there is this tragedy that
took place this morning in Gaza there's
another disaster looming on their
northern border with Hezbollah uh you
know the Israel understands that they
need the United States to back them up
right now while they're standing and
bracing for retaliatory taxmen both Iran
and hisbah they're heavily dependent on
the United States for weapons and other
assets intelligence so what in the best
case scenario uh this morning's event
can do is to create some kind of
momentum and an incentive for the United
States to say to Israel look we need
some concessions from you to reach that
ceasefire in Gaza you need us more in
fact than we need you at this point and
Netanyahu it's time to seal the deal
that's the best case
scenario but do you think the Israeli
government is interested in a ceasefire
agreement at this
stage um it's fascinating they they they
would welcome a kind of Hostage release
right and security and the question
until now has been you can't have both
Netanyahu has been saying you know we
must pursue uh this war to the very end
um and we can't stop short of and agree
to a hostage deal if that limits us what
we're looking at now is
potentially ironically or interestingly
these hostages which are held in
captivity do hold the key to unlock the
region to peace because if you do have
that ceasefire deal Iran will back off
you heard the Iran's representative to
the UN saying we don't want to stand in
the way of a ceasefire deal so perhaps
Iran will back off from its retaliatory
strike hisbah I don't know if we can
stop that train but it's our best chance
um and of course the war with Hamas
would at least come to a pause if not a
final resolution so there is this very
fragile moment and by the time we finish
this interview it could be blown there
could be a preemptive strike by Israel
in the north of heala then all bets are
off but for the moment anyway my fingers
are
crossed uh President Biden says he wants
the war to end by the time he leaves
office I mean considering for example
the US has just uh you know provided
this support this military Fresh
Military supports to Israel is that kind
of uh dream
realistic I think either way whoever
takes office in January is impatient for
for former president Trump if he becomes
president his sort of message to the
israelies is finish up and win right he
likes winners not losers he doesn't like
this idea of a kind of a wishy-washy
Netanyahu he likes somebody's strong and
decisive and in control and then the
same thing for the Harris campaign it's
slightly different they're saying you
know we set down this red line in Rafa
months ago that turned out to be our
Finish Line we would like it to
end without the kind of pressure for
this absolute Victory take the win
you've accomplished enough it's time to
move forward so I think either way
there's an impatience in Washington with
Israel and Netanyahu realizes that which
is why these kind of final string of
assaults somebody asked me are these in
basketball terms are these warm-up shots
or are they buzzer beaters before a game
over and I think and I believe that the
reason why the Israelis have have been
this kind of Blitz of assassinations is
they're sensing that this is their last
chance you know go big and then go home
okay Middle East analyst Laura
Blumenfeld thank you for your
insights thank you